                                 AMINA      WALDO, brought face to face with the actuality of the unbelievable--as  he himself would have worded it--was completely dazed. In silence he  suffered the consul to lead him from the tepid gloom of the interior,  through the ruinous doorway, out into the hot, stunning brilliance of  the desert landscape. Hassan followed, with never a look behind him.  Without any word he had taken Waldo’s gun from his nerveless hand and  carried it, with his own and the consul’s.    The consul strode across the gravelly sand, some fifty paces from the  southwest corner of the tomb, to a bit of not wholly ruined wall from  which there was a clear view of the doorway side of the tomb and of the  side with the larger crevice.    “Hassan,” he commanded, “watch here.”    Hassan said something in Persian.    “How many cubs were there?” the consul asked Waldo.    Waldo stared mute.    “How many young ones did you see?” the consul asked again.    “Twenty or more,” Waldo made answer.    “That’s impossible,” snapped the consul.    “There seemed to be sixteen or eighteen,” Waldo asserted. Hassan smiled  and grunted. The consul took from him two guns, handed Waldo his, and  they walked around the tomb to a point about equally distant from the  opposite corner. There was another bit of ruin, and in front of it, on  the side toward the tomb, was a block of stone mostly in the shadow of  the wall.    “Convenient,” said the consul. “Sit on that stone and lean against the  wall, make yourself comfortable. You are a bit shaken, but you will be  all right in a moment. You should have something to eat, but we have  nothing. Anyhow, take a good swallow of this.”    He stood by him as Waldo gasped over the raw brandy.    “Hassan will bring you his water-bottle before he goes,” the consul  went on; “drink plenty, for you must stay here for some time. And now,  pay attention to me. We must extirpate these vermin. The male, I judge,  is absent. If he had been anywhere about, you would not now be alive.  The young cannot be as many as you say, but, I take it, we have to deal  with ten, a full litter. We must smoke them out. Hassan will go back to  camp after fuel and the guard. Meanwhile, you and I must see that none  escape.”    He took Waldo’s gun, opened the breech, shut it, examined the magazine  and handed it back to him.    “Now watch me closely,” he said. He paced off, looking to his left past  the tomb. Presently he stopped and gathered several stones together.    “You see these?” he called.    Waldo shouted an affirmation.    The consul came back, passed on in the same line, looking to his right  past the tomb, and presently, at a similar distance, put up another  tiny cairn, shouted again and was again answered. Again he returned.    “Now you are sure you cannot mistake those two marks I have made?”    “Very sure indeed,” said Waldo.    “It is important,” warned the consul. “I am going back to where I left  Hassan, to watch there while he is gone. You will watch here. You may  pace as often as you like to either of those stone heaps. From either  you can see me on my beat. Do not diverge from the line from one to the  other. For as soon as Hassan is out of sight I shall shoot any moving  thing I see nearer. Sit here till you see me set up similar limits for  my sentry-go on the farther side, then shoot any moving thing not on  my line of patrol. Keep a lookout all around you. There is one chance  in a million that the male might return in daylight--mostly they are  nocturnal, but this lair is evidently exceptional. Keep a bright  lookout.    “And now listen to me. You must not feel any foolish sentimentalism  about any fancied resemblance of these vermin to human beings. Shoot,  and shoot to kill. Not only is it our duty, in general, to abolish  them, but it will be very dangerous for us if we do not. There  is little or no solidarity in Mohammedan communities, but on the  comparatively few points upon which public opinion exists it acts  with amazing promptitude and vigor. One matter as to which there is  no disagreement is that it is incumbent upon every man to assist in  eradicating these creatures. The good old Biblical custom of stoning  to death is the mode of lynching indigenous hereabouts. These modern  Asiatics are quite capable of applying it to anyone believed derelict  against any of these inimical monsters. If we let one escape and the  rumor of it gets about, we may precipitate an outburst of racial  prejudice difficult to cope with. Shoot, I say, without hesitation or  mercy.”    “I understand,” said Waldo.    “I don’t care whether you understand or not,” said the consul, “I want  you to act. Shoot if needful, and shoot straight.” And he tramped off.    Hassan presently appeared, and Waldo drank from his water-bottle as  nearly all of its contents as Hassan would permit. After his departure  Waldo’s first alertness soon gave place to mere endurance of the  monotony of watching and the intensity of the heat. His discomfort  became suffering, and what with the fury of the dry glare, the pangs of  thirst and his bewilderment of mind, Waldo was moving in a waking dream  by the time Hassan returned with two donkeys and a mule laden with  brushwood. Behind the beasts straggled the guard.    Waldo’s trance became a nightmare when the smoke took effect and the  battle began. He was, however, not only not required to join in the  killing, but was enjoined to keep back. He did keep very much in the  background, seeing only so much of the slaughter as his curiosity  would not let him refrain from viewing. Yet he felt all a murderer  as he gazed at the ten small carcasses laid out arow, and the memory  of his vigil and its end, indeed of the whole day, though it was the  day of his most marvelous adventure, remains to him as the broken  recollections of a phantasmagoria.    On the morning of his memorable peril Waldo had waked early. The  experiences of his sea-voyage, the sights at Gibraltar, at Port Said,  in the canal, at Suez, at Aden, at Muscat, and at Basrah had formed an  altogether inadequate transition from the decorous regularity of house  and school life in New England to the breathless wonder of the desert  immensities.    Everything seemed unreal, and yet the reality of its strangeness so  besieged him that he could not feel at home in it, he could not sleep  heavily in a tent. After composing himself to sleep, he lay long  conscious and awakened early, as on this morning, just at the beginning  of the false-dawn.    The consul was fast asleep, snoring loudly. Waldo dressed quietly and  went out; mechanically, without any purpose or forethought, taking his  gun. Outside he found Hassan, seated, his gun across his knees, his  head sunk forward, as fast asleep as the consul. Ali and Ibrahim had  left the camp the day before for supplies. Waldo was the only waking  creature about; for the guards, camped some little distance off, were  but logs about the ashes of their fire. Meaning merely to enjoy, under  the white glow of the false-dawn, the magical reappearance of the  constellations and the short last glory of the starladen firmament,  that brief coolness which compensated a trifle for the hot morning,  the fiery day and the warmish night, he seated himself on a rock, some  paces from the tent and twice as far from the guards. Turning his  gun in his hands he felt an irresistible temptation to wander off by  himself, to stroll alone through the fascinating emptiness of the arid  landscape.    When he had begun camp life he had expected to find the consul, that  combination of sportsman, explorer and archæologist, a particularly  easy-going guardian. He had looked forward to absolutely untramelled  liberty in the spacious expanse of the limitless wastes. The reality he  had found exactly the reverse of his preconceptions. The consul’s first  injunction was:    “Never let yourself get out of sight of me or of Hassan unless he or I  send you off with Ali or Ibrahim. Let nothing tempt you to roam about  alone. Even a ramble is dangerous. You might lose sight of the camp  before you knew it.”    At first Waldo acquiesced, later he protested. “I have a good  pocket-compass. I know how to use it. I never lost my way in the Maine  woods.”    “No Kourds in the Maine woods,” said the consul.    Yet before long Waldo noticed that the few Kourds they encountered  seemed simple-hearted, peaceful folk. No semblance of danger or  even of adventure had appeared. Their armed guard of a dozen greasy  tatterdemalions had passed their time in uneasy loafing.    Likewise Waldo noticed that the consul seemed indifferent to the ruins  they passed by or encamped among, that his feeling for sites and  topography was cooler than lukewarm, that he showed no ardor in the  pursuit of the scanty and uninteresting game. He had picked up enough  of several dialects to hear repeated conversations about “them.” “Have  you heard of any about here?” “Has one been killed?” “Any traces of  them in this district?” And such queries he could make out in the  various talks with the natives they met; as to what “they” were he  received no enlightenment.    Then he had questioned Hassan as to why he was so restricted in his  movements. Hassan spoke some English and regaled him with tales of  Afrits, ghouls, specters and other uncanny legendary presences; of the  jinn of the waste, appearing in human shape, talking all languages,  ever on the alert to ensnare infidels; of the woman whose feet turned  the wrong way at the ankles, luring the unwary to a pool and there  drowning her victims; of the malignant ghosts of dead brigands, more  terrible than their living fellows; of the spirit in the shape of a  wild-ass, or of a gazelle, enticing its pursuers to the brink of a  precipice and itself seeming to run ahead upon an expanse of sand, a  mere mirage, dissolving as the victim passed the brink and fell to  death; of the sprite in the semblance of a hare feigning a limp, or of  a ground-bird feigning a broken wing, drawing its pursuer after it till  he met death in an unseen pit or well-shaft.    Ali and Ibrahim spoke no English. As far as Waldo could understand  their long harangues, they told similar stories or hinted at dangers  equally vague and imaginary. These childish bogy-tales merely whetted  Waldo’s craving for independence.    Now, as he sat on a rock, longing to enjoy the perfect sky, the clear,  early air, the wide, lonely landscape, along with the sense of having  it to himself, it seemed to him that the consul was merely innately  cautious, over-cautious. There was no danger. He would have a fine  leisurely stroll, kill something perhaps and certainly be back in camp  before the sun grew hot. He stood up.    Some hours later he was seated on a fallen coping-stone in the shadow  of a ruined tomb. All the country they had been traversing is full  of tombs and remains of tombs, prehistoric, Bactrian, old Persian,  Parthian, Sassanian, or Mohammedan, scattered everywhere in groups  or solitary. Vanished utterly are the faintest traces of the cities,  towns, and villages, ephemeral houses or temporary huts, in which had  lived the countless generations of mourners who had reared these tombs.    The tombs, built more durably than mere dwellings of the living,  remained. Complete or ruinous, or reduced to mere fragments, they were  everywhere. In that district they were all of one type. Each was domed  and below was square, its one door facing eastward and opening into a  large empty room, behind which were the mortuary chambers.    In the shadow of such a tomb Waldo sat. He had shot nothing, had lost  his way, had no idea of the direction of the camp, was tired, warm and  thirsty. He had forgotten his water-bottle.    He swept his gaze over the vast, desolate prospect, the unvaried  turquoise of the sky arched above the rolling desert. Far reddish hills  along the skyline hooped in the less distant brown hillocks which,  without diversifying it, hummocked the yellow landscape. Sand and rocks  with a lean, starved bush or two made up the nearer view, broken here  and there by dazzling white or streaked, grayish, crumbling ruins. The  sun had not been long above the horizon, yet the whole surface of the  desert was quivering with heat.    As Waldo sat viewing the outlook a woman came round the corner of the  tomb. All the village women Waldo had seen had worn yashmaks or some  other form of face-covering or veil. This woman was bareheaded and  unveiled. She wore some sort of yellowish-brown garment which enveloped  her from neck to ankles, showing no waist line. Her feet, in defiance  of the blistering sands, were bare.    At sight of Waldo she stopped and stared at him as he at her. He  remarked the un-European posture of her feet, not at all turned out,  but with the inner lines parallel. She wore no anklets, he observed,  no bracelets, no necklace or earrings. Her bare arms he thought the  most muscular he had ever seen on a human being. Her nails were pointed  and long, both on her hands and feet. Her hair was black, short and  tousled, yet she did not look wild or uncomely. Her eyes smiled and  her lips had the effect of smiling, though they did not part ever so  little, not showing at all the teeth behind them.    “What a pity,” said Waldo aloud, “that she does not speak English.”    “I do speak English,” said the woman, and Waldo noticed that as she  spoke, her lips did not perceptibly open. “What does the gentleman  want?”    “You speak English!” Waldo exclaimed, jumping to his feet. “What luck!  Where did you learn it?”    “At the mission school,” she replied, an amused smile playing about  the corners of her rather wide, unopening mouth. “What can be done for  you?” She spoke with scarcely any foreign accent, but very slowly and  with a sort of growl running along from syllable to syllable.    “I am thirsty,” said Waldo, “and I have lost my way.”    “Is the gentleman living in a brown tent, shaped like half a melon?”  she inquired, the queer, rumbling note drawling from one word to the  next, her lips barely separated.    “Yes, that is our camp,” said Waldo.    “I could guide the gentleman that way,” she droned; “but it is far, and  there is no water on that side.”    “I want water first,” said Waldo, “or milk.”    “If you mean cow’s milk, we have none. But we have goat’s milk. There  is to drink where I dwell,” she said, sing-songing the words. “It is  not far. It is the other way.”    “Show me,” said he.    She began to walk, Waldo, his gun under his arm, beside her. She  trod noiselessly and fast. Waldo could scarcely keep up with her. As  they walked he often fell behind and noted how her swathing garments  clung to a lithe, shapely back, neat waist and firm hips. Each time  he hurried and caught up with her, he scanned her with intermittent  glances, puzzled that her waist, so well-marked at the spine, showed  no particular definition in front; that the outline of her from neck  to knees, perfectly shapeless under her wrappings, was without any  waistline or suggestion of firmness or undulation. Likewise he remarked  the amused flicker in her eyes and the compressed line of her red, her  too red lips.    “How long were you in the mission school?” he inquired.    “Four years,” she replied.    “Are you a Christian?” he asked.    “The Free-folk do not submit to baptism,” she stated simply, but with  rather more of the droning growl between her words.    He felt a queer shiver as he watched the scarcely moved lips through  which the syllables edged their way.    “But you are not veiled,” he could not resist saying.    “The Free-folk,” she rejoined, “are never veiled.”    “Then you are not a Mohammedan?” he ventured.    “The Free-folk are not Moslems.”    “Who are the Free-folk?” he blurted out incautiously.    She shot one baleful glance at him. Waldo remembered that he had to do  with an Asiatic. He recalled the three permitted questions.    “What is your name?” he inquired.    “Amina,” she told him.    “That is a name from the ‘Arabian Nights’,” he hazarded.    “From the foolish tales of the believers,” she sneered. “The Free-folk  know nothing of such follies.” The unvarying shutness of her speaking  lips, the drawly burr between the syllables, struck him all the more as  her lips curled but did not open.    “You utter your words in a strange way,” he said.    “Your language is not mine,” she replied.    “How is it that you learned my language at the mission school and are  not a Christian?”    “They teach all at the mission school,” she said, “and the maidens  of the Free-folk are like the other maidens they teach, though the  Free-folk when grown are not as town-dwellers are. Therefore they  taught me as any townbred girl, not knowing me for what I am.”    “They taught you well,” he commented.    “I have the gift of tongues,” she uttered enigmatically, with an odd  note of triumph burring the words through her unmoving lips.    Waldo felt a horrid shudder all over him, not only at her uncanny  words, but also from mere faintness.    “Is it far to your home?” he breathed.    “It is there,” she said, pointing to the doorway of a large tomb just  before them.    The wholly open arch admitted them into a fairly spacious interior,  cool with the abiding temperature of thick masonry. There was no  rubbish on the floor. Waldo, relieved to escape the blistering glare  outside, seated himself on a block of stone midway between the door and  the inner partition-wall, resting his gun-butt on the floor. For the  moment he was blinded by the change from the insistent brilliance of  the desert morning to the blurred gray light of the interior.    When his sight cleared he looked about and remarked, opposite the door,  the ragged hole which laid open the desecrated mausoleum. As his eyes  grew accustomed to the dimness he was so startled that he stood up. It  seemed to him that from its four corners the room swarmed with naked  children. To his inexperienced conjecture they seemed about two years  old, but they moved with the assurance of boys of eight or ten.    “Whose are these children?” he exclaimed.    “Mine,” she said.    “All yours?” he protested.    “All mine,” she replied, a curious suppressed boisterousness in her  demeanor.    “But there are twenty of them,” he cried.    “You count badly in the dark,” she told him. “There are fewer.”    “There certainly are a dozen,” he maintained, spinning round as they  danced and scampered about.    “The Free-people have large families,” she said.    “But they are all of one age,” Waldo exclaimed, his tongue dry against  the roof of his mouth.    She laughed, an unpleasant, mocking laugh, clapping her hands. She was  between him and the doorway, and as most of the light came from it he  could not see her lips.    “Is not that like a man! No woman would have made that mistake.”    Waldo was confuted and sat down again. The children circulated around  him, chattering, laughing, giggling, snickering, making noises  indicative of glee.    “Please get me something cool to drink,” said Waldo, and his tongue was  not only dry but big in his mouth.    “We shall have to drink shortly,” she said, “but it will be warm.”    Waldo began to feel uneasy. The children pranced around him, jabbering  strange, guttural noises, licking their lips, pointing at him, their  eyes fixed on him, with now and then a glance at their mother.    “Where is the water?”    The woman stood silent, her arms hanging at her sides, and it seemed to  Waldo she was shorter than she had been.    “Where is the water?” he repeated.    “Patience, patience,” she growled, and came a step near to him.    The sunlight struck upon her back and made a sort of halo about her  hips. She seemed still shorter than before. There was a something  furtive in her bearing, and the little ones sniggered evilly.    At that instant two rifle shots rang out almost as one. The woman  fell face downward on the floor. The babies shrieked in a shrill  chorus. Then she leapt up from all fours with an explosive suddenness,  staggered in a hurled, lurching rush toward the hole in the wall, and,  with a frightful yell, threw up her arms and whirled backward to the  ground, doubled and contorted like a dying fish, stiffened, shuddered  and was still. Waldo, his horrified eyes fixed on her face, even in his  amazement noted that her lips did not open.    The children, squealing faint cries of dismay, scrambled through the  hole in the inner wall, vanishing into the inky void beyond. The last  had hardly gone when the consul appeared in the doorway, his smoking  gun in his hand.    “Not a second too soon, my boy,” he ejaculated. “She was just going to  spring.”    He cocked his gun and prodded the body with the muzzle.    “Good and dead,” he commented. “What luck! Generally it takes three or  four bullets to finish one. I’ve known one with two bullets through her  lungs to kill a man.”    “Did you murder this woman?” Waldo demanded fiercely.    “Murder?” the consul snorted. “Murder! Look at that.”    He knelt down and pulled open the full, close lips, disclosing not  human teeth, but small incisors, cusped grinders, wide-spaced; and  long, keen, overlapping canines, like those of a greyhound: a fierce,  deadly, carnivorous dentition, menacing and combative.    Waldo felt a qualm, yet the face and form still swayed his horrified  sympathy for their humanness.    “Do you shoot women because they have long teeth?” Waldo insisted,  revolted at the horrid death he had watched.    “You are hard to convince,” said the consul sternly. “Do you call that  a woman?”    He stripped the clothing from the carcass.    Waldo sickened all over. What he saw was not the front of a woman,  but more like the underside of an old fox-terrier with puppies, or of  a white sow, with her second litter; from collar-bone to groin ten  lolloping udders, two rows, mauled, stringy and flaccid.    “What kind of a creature is it?” he asked faintly.    “A Ghoul, my boy,” the consul answered solemnly, almost in a whisper.    “I thought they did not exist,” Waldo babbled. “I thought they were  mythical; I thought there were none.”    “I can very well believe that there are none in Rhode Island,” the  consul said gravely. “This is in Persia, and Persia is in Asia.”