                       THE MESSAGE ON THE SLATE      MRS. LLEWELLYN had always held--in so far as she ever thought about  the subject at all--that to consult a clairvoyant was not merely an  imbecile folly, but a degrading action, nearly akin to crime. Now that  she felt herself over-masteringly driven to such an unconscionable  unworthiness she could not bring herself to do it openly. Anything  underhand or secretive was utterly alien to her nature. She was a  tall woman, notably well shaped, with unusual dignity of demeanor.  The poise of her head would have appeared haughty but for the winning  kindliness of her frequent smile. Her dark hair, dark eyes and very  white skin accorded well with that abiding calm of her bearing  which never seemed mere placidity in a face habitually lighted with  interested comprehension. Like a cloudless springtime sunrise over  limitless expanses of dewy prairies, she was enveloped in an atmosphere  of spacious serenity of soul, and her appearance was entirely in  consonance with her character. She was still a very beautiful woman,  high-souled as she was beautiful and exceedingly straight-forward.  Yet to drive in open day to a house bearing the displayed sign of a  spirit-medium was more than she could do. Bidding her footman call for  her later, much later, at her hairdresser’s, she dismissed her carriage  at the main entrance of a department store. Leaving it by another  entrance, she took a street car for the neighborhood she sought. The  neighborhood was altogether different from what she had anticipated;  the houses, by no means small, were even handsome; not least handsome  that of the clairvoyant. And it was very well kept, the pavement and  the steps clean, the plate glass window panes bright, the shades and  curtains new and tasteful, the silver doorknobs and door-bell fresh  polished. There was a sign, indeed, but not the flaming horror her  imagination had constructed from memories of signs seen in passing.  This was a bit of glass set inside the big, bright pane of one of  the parlor windows. It bore in small gold letters only the name,  SALATHIEL VARGAS, and the word, CLAIRVOYANT.    A neat maid opened the door. Yes, Mr. Vargas was in; would she walk  into the waiting room? The untenanted waiting room was a dignified  parlor, furnished in the costliest way, but with a restraint as far as  possible from ostentation. The rug was Persian, each piece of furniture  different in design from any other, yet all harmonizing, while the ten  pictures were paintings by well-known artists. Before Mrs. Llewellyn  had time for more than one comprehensive and surprised glance about,  when she had barely seated herself, the retreating maid struck two  sharp notes on a silvery gong. Almost immediately the door leading to  the rear room was opened. In it appeared a man under five feet tall,  not dwarfish, but deformed. His patent-leather shoes were boyish, his  trousers hung limp about legs shriveled to mere skeletal stems, and his  left knee was bent and fixed at an unchanging angle, so that his step  was a painful hobble. Above the waist he was well made; a deep chest;  broad, square shoulders; a huge head with a vast shock of black, curly  hair. He had the look of a musician or artist; with a wide forehead;  delicately curved eyebrows; nose hooked, sharp and assertive; eyes,  wide apart, large, dark brown with sparkles of red and green; and a  mouth whose curled upper lip was almost too short. The mouth and eyes  held Mrs. Llewellyn at first glance, and the instant change in them  startled her. He had appeared with a suave mechanical smile, with a  look of easy expectancy. As his gaze met hers his lips set and their  redness dulled; his eyes were full of so poignant a dismay that she  would not have been surprised had he abruptly retreated and slammed the  door between them. Without a word he clung to the knob, staring at her.  Then he drew the door to after him and leaned against it, still holding  to the knob with one hand behind his back. When he spoke it was in a  dry whisper.    “You here, of all women!”    “You know me!” she exclaimed; “I have never seen you.”    “You are seen of many thousands you never note,” he replied. “Everyone  knows Mrs. David Llewellyn. Everyone knew Constance Palgrave.”    “You flatter me,” she said coldly, with the air of one resenting an  unwelcome familiarity.    “Flattery is part of my trade,” he replied. “But I do not flatter you.  So little that I have forgotten my manners. I should have asked you to  step into my consulting room. Pray, enter it.”    She passed him as he held the door open for her. The inner room was  not less seemly than the outer. Except for three doors and one  broad window looking out on an area, it was walled with bookcases  some eight feet high, broken only where there were set into them two  small cabinets with drawers below. The glass doors of the bookcases  were of small panes, and the books within were in exquisite bindings.  Topping the cases were several splendid bronze busts. The furniture  was completed by a round mahogany center-table, several small chairs  and three tapestried armchairs. When Mrs. Llewellyn had seated herself  in one the clairvoyant took another. His agitation was so extreme that  had she been capable of fear it would almost have frightened her; her  curiosity it greatly piqued. He was as pale as a swarthy man can be,  his lips bloodless and twitching, dry and moistening themselves one  against the other as he mechanically swallowed in his nervousness. She  herself was perturbed in soul, but an eye less practised than his would  have discerned no signs of emotion beneath her easy exterior. They  faced each other in silence for some breaths; then he spoke:    “For what purpose have you come here?”    “To consult you,” she answered. “Is it astonishing? Do not all sorts of  persons come to consult you?”    “All sorts,” he replied. “But none such as you. Never any such as you.”    “I have come, it seems,” she said simply, “and to consult you.”    “In what way do you mean to consult me?” he queried. “People consult me  in various ways.”    “I had in mind,” she said, “the answers you give by writing on the  inside of a shut slate.”    “You have come to the wrong man,” he said harshly, with an obvious  effort that made his voice unnatural. “Go elsewhere,” and he rose.    She gazed at him in astonishment without moving.    “Why do you say that?” she demanded.    He opened each of the three doors, looked outside and then made sure  that each was latched. He looked out of the window, glancing at each of  the other windows visible from it. He hobbled once or twice up and down  the room, mopping his forehead and face with his handkerchief; then he  seated himself again.    “Mrs. Llewellyn,” he said, “I must request your promise of entire and  permanent secrecy for what I am about to tell you.”    “Anyone would suppose,” she said, “that you were the client and I the  clairvoyant.”    “Acknowledging that,” he replied. “Let it pass, I beg of you. I have  told you that you have come to the wrong man. I bade you go elsewhere.  You ask for an explanation. I have fortified myself to give it to you.  But I must have your pledge of silence if you desire an explanation.”    “I do desire it and you have my promise.”    He looked around the room with the movement of a rat in a cage. His  eyes met hers, but shifted uneasily, and his shamefaced gaze fell to  the floor. His hands clutched each other upon his lame knee.    “Madame,” he said, “I tell you to go elsewhere because I am a  charlatan, an impostor. My trances are mere pretense, the method of my  replies a farcical mummery, the answers transparent concoctions from  the hints I extract from my dupes.”    “You say this to try me,” she cried; “you are subjecting me to some  sort of test.”    “Madame,” he said, “look at me. Am I like a man playing a part? Do I  not look in earnest?”    She regarded him, convinced.    “But,” she wondered. “Why do you thrust this confession upon me?”    “I fear,” he hesitated, “that a truthful answer to that question would  displease you.”    “Your behavior,” she said, “and your utterances are so unexpected  and amazing to me, coming here as I have, that I must request an  explanation.”    Vargas straightened himself in his chair and looked her in the eyes,  not aggressively, but timidly. He spoke in a low voice.    “Madame,” he said solemnly, “I have told you the truth about myself  because you are the one human being whom I am unwilling to harm, wrong  or cheat.”    “You mean,”----she broke off, bridling.    “Ah, Madame,” he cried, “I mean nothing that has in it any tinge of  anything that might offend you. What does the north star know or care  how many frail, storm-tossed barks struggle to steer by it? Is it any  the less radiant, pure, high because so many to whom it is and shall  remain forever unattainable strive to win from its rays guidance  towards havens of safety? A woman such as you cannot guess, much less  know, to how many she is the one abiding heavenly beacon. How could  you, who need no such help from without, realize what the mere sight  of you afar off must mean to natures not blest with such a heritage  of goodness? How many have been strengthened at sight of your face,  wherein they could not but see the visible outward expression of that  inward peace and serenity that comes from right instincts unswervingly  adhering to noble ideals? You have been to me the incarnate token of  the existence of that righteousness to which I might not attain.”    Mrs. Llewellyn had borne his torrent of verbiage with a look of  intolerant toleration, of haughty displeasure curbed by astonishment.  When he paused for breath she said, in a voice half angry, half  repressed:    “I quite understand you, I have heard enough, I have heard altogether  too much of this; we will change the subject, if you please.”    “I spoke at your command,” Vargas apologized, abashed, “and only to  convince you of my sincerity in telling you that I am not worthy of  being consulted by you.”    “But,” she protested, carried away by her surprise, “you are called the  greatest clairvoyant on earth.”    “And I have schemed, advertised lavishly, spent money like water,  bribed reporters, bought editors, cajoled managers, hoodwinked owners  and won over their wives and daughters through laborious years to  produce that impression. It is no growth of accident, no spontaneous  recognition of self-evident merit.”    “But,” she argued, “are you a fiend doing all this for the delight of  deceiving for deception’s sake? Are you a man wealthy by inheritance  and choosing this form of activity for the pleasure it gives you?”    “By no means Madame,” he denied, “I live by my wits.”    “Your surroundings tell me that you live well,” she suggested.    “Better than my surroundings reveal,” he rejoined.    “Then your wits are good wits,” she ventured.    “None better of their kind on earth,” he naïvely admitted, wholly off  his guard.    “And they are not overtaxed?” she asked.    “Deception is not hard,” he told her, “the world is full of fools and  even the sensible are easy to deceive.”    “From what I have read,” she continued, “you do not deceive. Your  advice is good. Your precepts guide your clients right. Your  suggestions lead to success. Your predictions come to pass, your  conjectures are verified.”    “All that is true enough,” he allowed.    “Then how can you call your clients dupes, your methods mummeries, your  answers lies?” She wound up triumphantly.    “I did not call my answers lies,” he disclaimed. “Mummeries I deal  in and to dupes. Dupes they are all. They pour gold into my lap  to tell them what they already knew if they but reasoned it out  calmly with themselves. They babble to me all they need to know and  pay me insensately for it when I fling back to them a patchwork of  the fragments I have extracted from their stories of expectations,  apprehensions and memories.”    “But if you do all that you must be a real judge of human nature, a  genuine reader of hearts, a keen-brained counsellor.”    “I am all that and more,” he bragged. He had lost every trace of  agitation and bore himself with a dashing self-confidence of manner,  extremely engaging. “I cannot minister to a mind diseased; but I am  called on to prescribe for all sorts of delusions, follies, blunders,  miseries and griefs. I could count by thousands the men and women  I have saved, the lives I have made happy, the difficulties I have  annihilated, the aspirations I have guided aright.”    “Then you must have an immense experience of human frailties and human  needs.”    “Vast, enormous, incalculable,” he declared.    “Your advice then should be valuable.”    “It is valuable,” he boasted.    “Then advise me, I am in extreme distress. I have felt that no one  could help me. The belief that you might has given me a ray of hope.  You have expressed a regard for me altogether extraordinary. Will it  not lead you to help me?”    “Any advice and help, any service in my power you may be sure shall be  yours,” he said earnestly. “But let me ask you first, how was it that  you did not seek the advice of some business-man, lawyer or clergyman?  You are not at all of the light-headed type of those frivolous  women who flock to me and to others like me. You have common sense,  unalterable principles, rational instincts and personal fastidiousness,  why did you not go to one of the recognized, established, honored  advisers of humanity? Tell me that if you please?”    “It was because of the dream,” she faltered.    “The dream!” he exclaimed. “A dream sent you to me? What sort of a  dream?”    “I had come to feel that there could be no hope for me,” she said.  “But about a month ago I had a dream in which I was told ‘The seventh  advertisement in the seventh column of the seventh newspaper in the  seventh drawer of the linen room will point for you the way to escape  from your miseries and win what you desire.’ There should have been  no papers in my linen-room and it made me feel foolish to want to go  and look. Also the servants knew I never went there, so I had to watch  until the housekeeper was out and no maids were on that floor. Sure  enough I found seven old newspapers in the seventh drawer, and on the  seventh page of the lowermost paper, on the seventh column, the seventh  advertisement was yours.”    “And you came to me because of that dream?”    “Yes:--and;--” she hesitated.    “Well,” he interrupted, “the reasons why you came are not so important.  What I want to be sure of is this. Even if you were led to come by  a mere coincidence acting on your feelings, are you now, from cool,  deliberate reflection, determined to consult me? Would it not be better  to take my advice at this point and go to one of the world’s regular,  accredited dispensers of wisdom?”    “I have made up my mind to consult you,” she said. “It is not a passing  whim, but a settled resolve.”    “Then madame,” he said, his manner wholly changing, “you must tell me  all your troubles without any reservation of any kind. If I am to help  you I must know your case as completely as a physician would have to  know your symptoms in an illness. Tell me plainly what your trouble is.”    She began to pluck at her veil with her gloved hands.    “Oh,” she gasped, “let me moisten my lips. Just a swallow of water.”    For all his lameness he was surprisingly agile, as he wrenched himself  up, tore open the rear door and almost instantly hobbled back with a  glass and silver pitcher on a small silver tray.    She took off her veil and one glove. Several swallows were required to  compose her. When she was calm again he sat looking at her with a face  full of inquiry, but without uttering any questions.    “You do not know,” she said, “how hard it is to begin.”    “For the third time, Madame,” he said, “I advise you not to consult me,  to go elsewhere.”    “Are you not willing to help me?” she asked, softly.    “Utterly willing,” he said, “but timid, timid as a doctor would be  about prescribing for his own child. Yours is the first case ever  brought to me in which I feared the effect of personal bias dimming my  insight or deflecting my judgment. I have a second confession to make  to you. Before you married, a man desperately in love with you came to  me for help. Among other things he gave me the day, hour and minute of  your birth and of his and asked me to cast both horoscopes and infer  his chances of success. I had and have no faith in astrology, yet I  had cast my own horoscope long before from mere curiosity. When I cast  yours I was amazed at the clear indications of a connection between  your fate and mine. I did not believe anything of the Babylonian  absurdities, yet the coincidence struck me. Perhaps I am influenced  by it yet. Under such an influence, even more than under that of my  feeling for yourself, my acumen is likely to be impaired. I again  advise you to go elsewhere.”    “I am all the more determined to consult you and you only.”    He bowed without any word and waited in silence for her to go on.    She stared at him with big melting eyes, her face very pale.    “My husband does not love me,” she said.    “Not love you?” Vargas exclaimed, startled. “Do you mean seriously  to tell me that, you who have been loved by hundreds, been adored,  worshipped, courted by so many, for despair of gaining whom men have  gone mad, who have had your choice of so many lovers, are not prized by  the man who succeeded in winning you?”    “Yes,” she barely breathed. “He does not prize me, nor love me at all.”    “Does he love any one else?”    Out of her total paleness she flushed rose pink from throat to hair.    “Yes,” she admitted.    “Who is she?” Vargas demanded.    “His first wife.”    Vargas staggered to his feet. “I did not so much as know that your  husband had been married before,” he gasped, “let alone that he was  divorced.”    “He was not divorced,” she stated.    “Not divorced,” he quavered.    “No, he was a widower when I married him.”    Vargas collapsed back into his chair.    “I do not understand,” he told her. “Does he love a dead woman?”    “Just that,” she asseverated.    “This will not do,” the clairvoyant told her, “I cannot come nearer  to helping you at this rate. Try to give me the information you think  necessary, not by splinters and fragments, but as a whole. Make a  connected exposition of the circumstances. Begin at the beginning!”    “That is harder,” she mused, “I always want to begin anything at the  last chapter.”    “Woman fashion,” he commented. “You are above that in most things, I  know. Try a straight story from the beginning.”    She reflected:    “The beginning,” she said, “was before I began to remember. David and  I were playmates before we could talk. Boy and girl, lad and lass, we  always belonged to each other, there was no lovemaking between us, I  think, for it was all love-living. I do not believe he ever asked me  to marry him or promised to marry me, or so much as talked marriage.  But we had a clear understanding that we were to marry as soon as we  could, at the earliest possible day. He did not merely seem wrapped  up in me, he was. God knows he was all my life. Then he had no more  than seen Marian Conway when he fell in love with her. There is no use  in dwelling on what I suffered. He married almost at once and I gave  myself up to that empty life of frivolity which made me a reigning  beauty and brought me scores of suitors for none of whom I cared  anything and which gave me not a particle of satisfaction. Then after  they had lost both their children Marian died. David was frightfully  overcome by his loss. He had loved her inconceivably and he showed his  grief in the most heart-rending ways. He had the coffin opened over  and over after it had been closed. He had it even lifted out of the  grave and opened yet once more for one more look at her face. He spent  every moment from her death to her burial in a sort of adoration of her  corpse, and he did stranger things. I do not know whether it was Mr.  Llewellyn’s valet who told, but at any rate the story got out among the  servants. The night before she was buried he had her laid out in her  coffin and a second coffin exactly like it set beside hers. He stayed  locked in the room all night. They believed he lay in the other coffin.  At any rate in the morning it was closed, and he did not allow it to be  opened. What he had placed in it no one knew. They said it was as heavy  as the other. Two hearses, one behind the other, carried the coffins to  the graveyard. Her grave is not under the monument--you have seen the  monument?”    “No,” he said, “only a picture of it.”    “Well, she is not buried under it, and the second coffin was placed on  hers.”    She stopped.    “Go on,” he said.    “Oh,” she cried, “it is so hard to go on. But it is true. As soon as  David was free I felt I had an object in life. I--I followed him, I  might almost say pursued him all over the world, and when we met I  courted him, and it seems strange, but I asked him to marry me. And--”  she hesitated--“he refused twice.”    “He did not want to marry you?” Vargas asked incredulously.    “He refused. It was at Cairo, that first time. He said he could not  love anyone any more, all his love, his very self, was buried in  Marian’s grave. The second time was at Hongkong. Then he said he always  had cared for me and still cared for me, but that affection was as  nothing compared to his passion for Marian, that he would never marry,  and especially he would not marry me because of his regard for me, that  I would not be contented or happy with him, that I was thinking of the  lad he had been and that boy was buried in his wife’s grave, that he  was nothing more than a walking ghost, a wraith of what he had been, a  spirit condemned to wander its allotted time on earth until his hour  should come and he be called to join Marian.    “The third time was in Paris. He said he was indifferent to everything,  to anything, to love or hate or death or life; that he cared nothing  whether he married me or not. If I cared as much as I seemed to he  would marry me to please me. I told him that what I had always wanted  was to be with him, that what I most wanted was to spend with him as  much as possible of my time until death parted us. He said if that was  what I wanted I could have it, but he was nothing more than a shadow  of his old self and I was sure to be unhappy. And I am unhappy. He is  generosity, gentleness, kindness and consideration itself, but he does  not care. I hoped, of course, that his grief for Marian would soften,  fade away and vanish, that he would cease to mourn for her, that his  interest in life would reawaken, that I could win his love and that we  would both be happy. But I am not. His utter indifference to me, to  anything, to everything is preying on my feelings, I must do something.  I shall lose my mind.”    “Is that all?” Vargas asked.    “It is enough,” she asserted, “and more than enough. Do you think it a  small matter?”    “Not in the least,” he declared, “I comprehend your disappointment in  respect to your hopes, your chagrin at your baffled efforts to win him  back to be his old self, your pain at his inertness. But by your own  showing you have no grievance against your husband.”    “That I have not,” she maintained. “Not a shadow of a grievance against  him. My grievance is for him as much as for myself and against--against  the way the world is made.”    Vargas looked at her for some little time.    “You do not say what you are thinking,” she interrupted.    “I am considering how to express it,” he said. “However I express it I  am sure to offend you.”    “Not a bit,” she replied. “Say it at once.”    “You must realize that if I am to advise you truly I must speak  plainly,” he hesitated.    “I do realize it,” she told him.    “You will then pardon what I have to say?” he ventured.    “I will pardon anything except beating about the bush,” she rapped out.    “Well,” he said slowly, “it seems to me that your coming to me, your  state of mind, your trouble, as you have related it all turns upon a  piece of femininity to which you should be altogether superior, to  which I should have imagined you were altogether superior. You look,  and I have always imagined you, free from any trace of the eternal  feminine. Here it crops out. Men in general find that women in general  have no feeling for the mutuality of a contract. Some women may be  exceptions, but women habitually ignore the other side of a contract  and see only their own side. Here you display the same defect. Mr.  Llewellyn practically proposed a contract to you: on his side he to  marry you, on your side, you to put up with his complete indifference  to you, to everything, and be content with his actual companionship  such as he is. He has fulfilled and is fulfilling his part of the  contract, you seek escape from yours.”    “I think,” she snapped. “You are insufferably brutal.”    “The eternal feminine again,” he retorted. “Worse and more of it. I  told you I should offend you.”    “You do offend me. I have confidence in you, but I did not come here  to be scolded or to be preached at. I do not want criticism, I want  advice. Don’t tell me my shortcomings, real or imaginary, think over my  troubles and my needs and tell me what to do.”    “That is plain enough,” he asserted. “Do your obvious duty. Keep your  part of your contract with your husband. Give no sign that you suffer  from the absence of feeling of which he warned you. Make the most of  your life with him. Hope for a change in him but do not try to force  it, do not rebel if it does not come.”    “I know I ought to endure,” she wailed. “But I cannot, I must do  something. I must act. I must.”    “You have asked for my advice,” he said, “and you have it.”    “And what good is it to me?” she objected, “I ask for help and  you string out platitudinous precepts like a snuffy, detestable  old-fashioned evangelical dominie. Is this all the help you can give  me?”    “All,” said Vargas humbly. “If I knew of any other it should be at your  service.”    “You could consult your slate for me, as I proposed,” she suggested.    “Great heavens above!” he cried, “I have told you that all that is  imposture.”    “It might turn out genuine for once,” she persisted. “Don’t people have  real trances? Don’t many people believe in the answers from slates and  planchettes and ouija boards?”    “Perhaps they do,” Vargas admitted. “But I never had a real trance,  never saw one, never knew of one. And to my knowledge no slate or other  such device ever gave any answer or wrote anything unless I or some  other shuffler made it write or answer.”    “But could you not try just once for my sake,” she implored.    “Why on earth,” he demanded, “are you, so sane and sensible in  appearance, so set on this mummery?”    “Because of the other dream,” she faltered.    “The other dream!” he exclaimed. “You had another dream?”    “Yes,” she said, “I was going to tell you but you interrupted me. The  dream about the advertisement did not convince me. I felt it might be  coincidence after all. That was more than a month ago and I disregarded  it. But night before last I dreamed I was told, ‘The message on the  slate will be true.’ I fought against it all day yesterday, all last  night. To-day I gave up and came. I want you to consult your slate for  me.”    “Madame,” he said, “this is dreadful. Can nothing make you see the  truth. There is not anything supernatural about this trade of mine. It  is as simple as a Punch and Judy show. There the puppets do nothing  save as the showman controls them; so of my slate and of my trances.”    “But it might surprise you,” she persisted. “It might come true once.  Won’t you try for me?”    “I know,” he mused, “that there is such a thing as auto-hypnotism. To  humor you I might try to put myself into a genuine trance. But there  would be nothing about it to help you, just a mere natural sleep,  artificially induced. If I babbled in it the words would have no  significance, and no writing would appear on the slate unless I put it  there.”    “Just try,” she pleaded, “for my sake, to quiet me. If there is  nothing, then I shall believe you.”    “There will be nothing on the slate,” he maintained. “But suppose I  should mumble some fragments of words. You might take those accidental  vocables for a revelation, they might become an obsession upon you,  they might warp your judgment and do you great harm. I feel we should  be running a foolish risk. Give up this idea of the trance and the  slate, I beg of you.”    “And I beg of you to try it. You said you would do anything for me.  That is what I want and nothing else.”    He shook his head, his expression crestfallen, baffled, puzzled, even  alarmed.    “If you insist--” he faltered.    “I do insist,” she said.    “You wish,” he inquired, “to proceed exactly as I usually do with my  simulated trance and pretended spirit replies?”    “Precisely,” she affirmed.    He opened a drawer below one of the cabinets and took out a hinged  double slate. It was made like a child’s school-slate, but the rims  instead of being wood, were of silver, the edges beaded and the flat of  each rim chased in a pattern of pentacles, swastikas and pentagrams; a  pentacle, a right-hand swastika, a pentagram, a left-hand swastika and  so on all round. In the drawer was a box of fresh slate-pencils. This  he held out to her and told her to choose one. At his bidding she broke  off a short fragment and put it between the two leaves of the slate,  the four faces of which were entirely blank.    “Settle yourself in your chair,” he instructed her, “hold the slate  in your lap. Hold it fast with both hands. First take off your other  glove.”    As she did this he settled himself into the armchair opposite her, took  a silver paper-knife from the table and held it upright, gazing at its  point.    “You are not to move or speak until I tell you,” he directed her.    So they sat, she holding in her lap the slate shut fast upon the pencil  within, her fingers enforcing its closure; he gazing intently at the  point of the scimitar-shaped paper-knife. She became aware of the slow,  pompous tick of a tall clock in the hallway; of faint noises, as of  activity in a pantry, proceeding from somewhere in the rear of the  house and barely audible through the closed window. She had expected to  see him stiffen, his eyes roll up or some such manifestation appear.  Nothing of the kind happened. For a long time, a very long time, she  watched him staring fixedly at the sharp end of the paper-cutter. Then  she saw it waver, saw his eyes close and his head, propped against the  back of the armchair, move ever so little sideways, as the neck-muscles  relaxed. His hands opened, the knife dropped on his knee and he was  to all appearances peacefully asleep. Presently his even, regular  breathing was a sound more apparent than the tick of the clock outside.    All of a sudden Mrs. Llewellyn felt herself ridiculous. Here she  was, holding a childish toy, facing a strange man with whom she was  entirely alone and who was apparently enjoying a needed snooze. She had  an impulse to laugh and was on the point of rising, disembarrassing  herself of her burden and leaving the house.    At that instant she felt a movement between the fast-shut slates.  They lay level upon her lap, firmly set. She had not jarred or tilted  them, yet she felt the pencil move. Felt it move and heard it too. Her  mood of impatient self-contempt and irritated derision was instantly  obliterated under a wave of terrified awe. She controlled a spasm of  panic, an impulse to let go her hold upon her frightful charge, to  scream, to run away. Rigid, trembling, breathing quick, her heart  hammering her ribs, she sat, her fingers gripping the slates, listening  for another movement. It came. Faintly at first, she felt and heard  it, then more distinctly. Slowly, very slowly, with intervals of  silence, the bit of pencil crawled, tapped and scratched about. While  listening to it, and still more while listening for it, she was under  so terrific a tension that she felt if nothing happened to relieve  her, she must faint or shriek. When she continued listening for a long,  an interminable, an unbearable time and heard nothing but the clock in  the hall and Vargas’ breathing in the room, she felt she was about to  do both.    Then the clairvoyant uttered a choked sound, the incipience of that  feeble wailing groan or groaning wail of a sleeper in a nightmare.  His feet moved, his undeformed leg stiffened, his hands clenched, his  head rolled from side to side, he writhed, the effort expended at each  successive groan was more and more excessive, each sound feebler and  more pitiful.    Then Mrs. Llewellyn did scream.    Instantly Vargas struggled into a sitting posture, his face contorted,  his eyes bulging, staring at her.    “Did I speak, did I speak?” he gasped.    Mrs. Llewellyn was past articulation, but she shook her head.    “I passed into a real trance, a real trance,” he babbled.    She could only cling to the slate and gaze.    “I had a frightful dream,” Vargas panted, “I dreamed there was a  message on the plate. It frightened me, but what it was has escaped me.”    “There is a message on the slate,” she managed to utter, “I heard the  pencil writing.”    Vargas, holding to the back of his chair, assisted himself to his feet.  From her fingers, mechanically clenched on it, he gently disengaged the  slate and put it on the table. Opening one of the cabinets he took out  a decanter and two glasses, half filling one he placed it in her numb  grasp.    “Drink that,” he dictated, draining the other full glass as he spoke.    Half dazed she obeyed him. Her face flushed angrily and the glass broke  as she set it down.    “You have given me brandy!” she cried in indignation.    “You needed it,” he asserted. “It will steady you, but you will not  feel it. Compose yourself and we will look at the slate.”    She stood up beside him and he laid the slate open. There was writing  on each leaf of it, on one side legible, on the other reversed.    “Oh,” she said and sat down heavily. He brought a small chair, set it  beside hers and seated himself upon it, the slates open in his hands,  before them both. Fine-lined, legible, plainly made by the point of  the pencil, was the writing, on one leaf of the slates; on the other  reversed writing with coarse strokes, plainly made by the splintered  end, which was worn slightly at one place. All the writing was in the  same individual script.    “This is not my handwriting,” said Vargas.    “It is my husband’s,” she gasped.    The words on the slate were:    “That which is buried in that coffin is alive. If disinterred it will  die.”    Vargas opened the other cabinet. The inside of its door was a mirror.  Before this he held the slates. On the other leaf the broad-stroked  script showed the same words.    “What does it mean?” she pleaded, “oh! what does it mean?”    “It doesn’t mean anything,” said Vargas, roughly.    “How can that be,” she moaned. “It must mean something. It does mean  something. I feel it does.”    “That is just the point,” he said, “that is what I feared before, and  warned you of. Here are some chance words. They mean nothing, except  that you or I or both of us have been intensely strung up with emotion.  But if you cannot see that or be made to see that, you are lost. If you  feel that they mean something, then they do mean that something to you,  that that is your danger. Do not yield to it.”    “Do you mean to tell me, to try to convince me that those words, twice  written, in the same handwriting, in my husband’s hand of all hands,  formed upon those slates while I held them myself, came there by  accident?”    “Not by accident,” he argued. “By some operation of unguessed forces  set in motion by your excitement or mine or both; but blind forces,  meaningless as the voices in dreams.”    “Am I to believe meaningless,” she demanded, “the voices in my dreams  that sent me to that advertisement and to you and told me expect an  answer from the slates, a true answer?”    “Madame,” he reasoned, “the series of coincidences is startling, but it  is nothing but a series of coincidences. Try to rise superior to it.”    “And you won’t help me,” she wailed. “You won’t tell me what this  message means?”    “I have told you my belief as to how it originated,” he said, “I have  told you that I do not attach any other significance to it.”    “Oh,” she groaned, “I must go home.”    “Your carriage is at the door,” he said.    “My carriage!” she exclaimed. “How did it get there?”    “Not your own carriage,” he explained, “but one for you. I telephoned  for it.”    “You have not left me an instant,” she asserted incredulously.    “When I brought you a glass of water I told the maid to telephone for a  carriage and tell it to wait. It will be there.”    “I thank you,” she said, “and now, what do I owe you? What is your fee?”    Vargas flushed all over his face and neck, a deep brownish-red.    “Mrs. Llewellyn,” he said with great dignity, “I take pay from my  dupes for my fripperies of deception. But no money, not all the money  on earth could pay me to do what I have done for you to-day, no sum  could induce me to go through it again for anyone else. For you I  would do anything. But what I have done was not done for payment, nor  will anything I may do be done except for you, for whom I would do any  service in my power.”    “I ask your pardon,” she said. “Where is the carriage? I shall faint if  I stay here.”      Some weeks later, in the same room, the clairvoyant and the lady again  faced each other.    “I had hoped never to see you again,” he said.    “Did you imagine that I could escape from the compulsion of all that  series of manifestations?” she asked.    “I tried to believe that you might,” he answered.    “Have you been able to shake off its hold on you?” she demanded.    “Not entirely,” he confessed. “But dazing as the coincidences were,  the effect on my emotions will wear off, like the smart of a burn;  and, as one forgets the fury of past sufferings, I shall forget the  turmoil of my feelings. There was no clear intelligibility, no definite  significance in it at all.”    “Not in that message!” she exclaimed.    “Certainly not,” he asseverated.    “Yes there was,” she contradicted.    “Madame,” he said earnestly, “if you fancy you perceive any genuine  coherence in those fortuitous words you have put the meaning there  yourself, your imagination is riveting upon your soul fetters of your  own forging.”    “My imagination and my soul have nothing to do with my insight into  the spirit of that message,” she said calmly. “My heart cries out  for help and my intellect has pondered at leisure upon what you call  a fortuitous series of coincidences, a chance string of meaningless  words. I see no incoherence, rather convincing coherence, in the  sequence of your reading of horoscopes, my dreaming of dreams, leading  up to the imperative behest given me from your slate.”    “Madame,” he cried, “this is heart-rending. I told you I dreaded the  effect upon you of any sort of mummery. You forced me to it. I should  have had strength to refuse you. I yielded. Now my cowardice will ruin  you.”    “Was not your trance genuine?” she queried.    “Entirely genuine, entirely too genuine.”    “Did not the writing appear upon the slate independent of your will or  of mine?” she demanded.    “It did,” he admitted.    “Can you explain how it came there?” she wound up.    “Alas, no,” he confessed, shaking his head.    “You can scarcely reproach me for accepting it as a message,” she  concluded triumphantly.    “I do not reproach you,” he said, “I reproach myself as culpable.”    “I rather thank you for what you have done for me,” she almost smiled  at him. “It gives me hope. I have meditated carefully upon the message  and I am convinced that I comprehend its meaning.”    “That is the worst possible state of mind you could get into,” he  groaned. “Can I not make you realize the truth? It is not as you think  you see it.”    “I do not think,” she said. “I know. I am convinced, and I mean to act  on my convictions.”    “This is terrible,” he muttered. Then he controlled himself, shifted  his position in his chair and asked: “And what are your convictions?  What do you mean to do?”    “My conviction,” she said, “is that David’s love for Marian is in some  way bound up with whatever he had buried in that coffin. I mean to have  the coffin disinterred.”    “Madame,” he said, “this thing gets worse the more you tell me of it.  You are in danger of coming under the domination of a fixed idea, even  if you are not already under its sway. Fight against it. Shake it off.”    “There is no use in your talking that way to me,” she said. “I mean to  do it. I shall do it.”    “Has your husband consented?” Vargas asked.    “He has,” she replied.    “Do you mean to tell me that he has agreed to your opening his wife’s  grave?”    “He has agreed,” she asserted.    “But did he make no demur?” the clairvoyant inquired.    “He said he did not care what I did, I could do anything I pleased.”    “Was that all he said?” Vargas persisted.    “Not all,” she admitted. “He asked me if I had not told him that what  I wanted in this life was to spend as much as possible of my time on  earth with him, for us two to be together as much as circumstances  would allow, and as long as death would permit. I told him of course I  had said it, not once but over and over. He asked me if I still felt  that way. I told him I did. He said it made no difference to him, he  was past any feelings, but if that was what I really wanted he advised  me to let that grave alone.”    “Take his advice, by all means,” Vargas exclaimed. “It is good advice.  You let that grave alone.”    “I am determined,” she told him.    “Madame,” he said, “will you listen to me?”    “Certainly,” she replied. “If you have anything to say to the purpose.  But not to fault-findings or to scoldings.”    “Mrs. Llewellyn,” Vargas began, “what happened during your former visit  to me has demolished the entire structure of my spiritual existence.  I had the sincerest disbelief in astrology, in prophecy, in ghosts,  in apparitions, in superstitions, each and all, in supernaturalism in  general, in religions, individually and collectively, in the idea of  future life. Upon the most materialistic convictions my intellectual  life was placid and unruffled, and my soul-life, if I had any,  undisturbed by anything save occasional and very evanescent twinges of  conscience over the contemptible duplicity of my way of livelihood.  Intermittently only I despised myself. Mostly I only despised my dupes  and generally not even that. Rather I merely smiled tolerantly at  the childishness of their profitable credulity. Never did I have the  remotest approach to any shadow of belief that there could be anything  occult beneath or behind any such jugglery as I continually made use  of. The matter of your horoscope and mine I took as mere coincidence.  It might affect my feelings, never my reason; my heart, never my head.  My head is involved now, my reason at fault. In the writing on that  slate I am face to face with something, if not supernatural, at least  preternatural. The thing is beyond our ordinary experience of the  ordinary operation of those forces which make the world go. It depends  upon something not yet understood, not necessarily inexplicable, but  unexplained. It is uncanny. I don’t like it. Yet I do not yield to its  influence. I am not swept away. If I dwell upon it, I know it will  unsettle my reason. I do not mean to dwell upon it, I mean to get away  from it, to ignore it, to forget it, and I counsel you to do likewise.”    “Your counsel,” she said, “has a long-winded preamble, but is entirely  unacceptable.”    “I have more to say,” he went on. “Mere bewilderment of mind is not  an adequate ground for action. There is a fine old proverb that says,  ‘When in doubt, do nothing.’ Take its advice and your husband’s; do  nothing.”    “But I am not in doubt,” she protested. “I am convinced that I was  meant to come to you, that the message was meant for me, and that I  know what it means. I am determined to act upon it.”    He shook his head with a gesture of despair, but continued:    “I have more yet to say and on another point. I advise you to go away  from all this. You should and you can. You have your own wealth and  your husband’s opulence at your disposal. You have one of the finest  steam-yachts on the seas awaiting your pleasure. Much as you have  traveled, the globe has many fascinating regions still new to you.  Your husband and you have practically not traveled at all since your  marriage. You should still hope for your husband’s recovery of his  spirits by natural means. Travel is the most obvious prescription.  Try that. Because your husband had not emerged from his brooding upon  his loss and grief during two years of wandering alone with a valet;  because he has not recovered his spirits after two years of matrimony  spent in the neighborhood of his first wife’s grave, in mansions full  of memories of her, is no reason for not hoping that his elasticity  will revive during months or years spent with you among delightful  scenes of novelty, far from anything to recall his mind to old  associations.”    “I have no hope in any such attempt,” she said wearily. “When I cannot  bear my life here with a mate who is no more than a likeness of the man  I loved, why drag this soulless semblance about the oceans of the earth  in the hope of seeing it awake to love me? Shall I expect a miracle  from salt air or the rays of the Southern cross?”    “Mrs. Llewellyn,” Vargas said, “I have taken the liberty of making  inquiries, quite unobtrusively, concerning your husband’s treatment  of you. I find that it is the general impression that he is a very  uxorious, a very loverly husband. Except the barest minimum required  for his affairs, he spends his entire time with you. His best friends,  his boyhood’s chums, his life-long cronies he never converses with,  never chats with, hardly talks to, and for all his genial cordiality  and courtesy, barely more than greets in passing. He is seldom seen at  his clubs and very briefly. To all appearances he devotes himself to  you wholly. You have all the external trappings of happiness: health,  beauty, a devoted husband, the most desirable intimates, countless  friends, luxurious surroundings, and unlimited affluence. It is for you  to put life into all this, it is your duty to recall to it what you  miss. You should leave no natural means untried turning to what you  propose.”    “My determination is irrevocably taken,” she said.    “But what do you expect to find in the coffin?” he queried.    “I have no expectations, not even any anticipations,” she said. “We may  find keepsakes of some kind; there cannot be love-letters, for they  scarcely separated a day after they met, or an hour after they married.  There may be nothing in the coffin. But I am convinced that whatever  it does or does not contain, David’s love for Marian is bound up with  the closure of that coffin. I believe that if it is opened he will be  released from his passion of grief and be free to love me.”    “You mean practically to resort to an incantation, a sort of  witchcraft. The notion is altogether unworthy of you, especially while  so natural a device as travel remains untried.”    “You do not understand,” she said, “that I feel compelled to do  something.”    “Is not going for a cruise doing something?” he asked.    “Practically doing nothing,” she replied. “Just being with David and  watching for the change that never comes. You don’t know how that makes  me feel forced to take some action.”    “I do not know,” he said, “because you have not told me.”    “I cannot tell you,” she said, “because I cannot find any words to  express what I feel. I could not convey it to you, the loneliness that  overwhelms me when I am alone with David. It is worse than being alone;  I cannot imagine feeling so lonely lost in a wilderness, solitary in  the desert, adrift on a raft in mid-ocean. Being with David, as he is,  makes me feel--” (her voice sank to a whisper and her face grew pale,  her lips gray) “oh, it makes me feel as if I were worse than with  nobody. It makes me feel as if I were with nothing, with nothing at  all.”    “I sympathize with you deeply,” said Vargas. “But all you say only  deepens my conviction that your one road to safety lies in striving to  overcome these feelings; your best hope is change of scene and travel.  Above all let that grave alone.”    “My determination is irrevocably taken,” she repeated.    “Mrs. Llewellyn,” Vargas asked, “how, in your belief, did the writing  you saw upon the slate come there?”    “I have no conception at all as to how it came there,” she replied.    “None at all?” he probed.    “None definitely,” she said. “Vaguely I suppose I conceive it came  there by the power of some consciousness and will beyond our ken.”    “Do you mean,” he queried, “by the intervention of a ghost, or spirit  or some such disembodied entity?”    “Perhaps,” she admitted, “but I have not thought it out at all.”    “Granted a spirit,” he suggested, “might it not be a malignant sprite,  an imp bent on doing you harm, upon entrapping you to your destruction?”    “I don’t credit such an idea for a moment,” she said. “The message has  given me hope. Your innuendoes seek to rob me of my hope.”    “I seek to save you,” Vargas said, “to dislodge you from your fortalice  of resolve.”    “For the third time,” she said, “I tell you that my determination is  irrevocably taken.”    Vargas awkwardly stood up. He clung to the back of a chair and gazed  at her steadily. His face, from a far-off solemn look of resigned  desperation gradually took on an expression of prophetic resolve.    “Pardon me,” he said, “if I must shock you. I wish to put to you a  question.”    “Put it,” she said coldly.    “Mrs. Llewellyn,” the clairvoyant asked in a deep, slow voice. “Have  you kept your marriage vows?”    “Sir,” she said angrily, rising. “You are insulting me.”    “Not a particle,” he persisted. “You have not answered my question.”    “To answer it is superfluous,” she said, facing him in trembling wrath.  “Of course I have kept them. You know how utterly I love my husband.”    “You regard your vows as sacred?” he asked relentlessly.    “Of course,” she said wearily.    “Why then,” he demanded, “do you attach less sanctity to your verbal  compact with your husband? Your duty as a wife is to keep one compact  as well as the other. Keep both. Do not be recalcitrant against the  terms of your agreement. Endure his indifference and strive patiently  to win his love. It is your duty, as much as it is your duty to keep  your marriage vows.”    “You assume a rôle,” she said, “very unsuitable for you. Preaching  misfits you, and it has no effect on me. I know and feel all this. But  there is the plain meaning of that message. I shall open that grave.”    “I have done all I can,” he said dispiritedly. “I cannot dissuade you.”    “You cannot,” she said.    “How then can I serve you?” he asked. “I have not yet discovered to  what I owe the honor of this second visit. Why are you here?”    “I wish you to be present at the opening of the coffin,” she said.    “Are you sure,” he demanded, “that that would not be most unseemly? The  first Mrs. Llewellyn, I believe, left no near relatives. But would not  even her cousins resent such an intrusion as my presence there? Would  not your husband still more resent it? Would it not be in very bad  taste?”    “I do not make requests,” she said, “that are in bad taste. As for my  husband, he resents and will resent nothing, as he approves and will  approve of nothing. My brother will be there and he will not find  anything unseemly in your presence.”    “Nevertheless I hesitate to agree,” said Vargas.    “You have expressed,” said she, “a very deep regard for me, will you  not do this since I ask it?”    “I will,” he said with an effort.    “Then whenever I write you and send a carriage for you, you will be  there at the time named?”    “I promise,” he said.      Sometime before the appointed hour, at that spot where a driveway  approached nearest to the Llewellyn monument, Vargas painfully emerged  from a closed carriage, the blue shades of which were drawn down.  He spoke to some one inside and shut the door. He had taken but two  or three hobbling steps, when another carriage closely followed his  stopped where his had stopped. Its shades were also drawn down. When  its door opened a well dressed man got out. As Vargas had done he spoke  to some one inside and closed the door. When he turned Vargas saw a  man of usual, very conventional appearance, the sort of man visible  by scores in fashionable clubs. His build and carriage were those of  a man naturally jaunty in his movements. His well-fleshed, healthy  face, smooth shaven except for a thick brown mustache, was such a  face as lends itself naturally to expressions of good fellowship and  joviality. His brown eyes were prone to merriment. But there was  no sparkle in them, no geniality in his air, no springiness in his  movements. He wore his brown derby a trifle, the merest trifle, to  one side, but his expression was careworn, he looked haggard. He had  the air of a man used to having his own way, but he held himself now  without any elasticity. He looked the deformed clairvoyant up and down  with one quick glance, fixed him with a direct gaze as he approached  and greeted him with an engaging air of easy politeness, neither stiff  nor familiar.    “My name is Palgrave,” he said, “I presume you are Mr. Vargas.”    “The same,” said the clairvoyant, with not a little constraint.    “Pleased to meet you,” said the other holding out his hand and  diminishing Vargas’ embarrassment by the heartiness of his handshake.  “Glad to have a chance for a talk with you. My sister has told me of  her visits to you.”    Vargas controlled his expression, but shot one lightning glance at the  other’s face, reading there instantly how much Mrs. Llewellyn had told  her brother and how much she had not told him.    There was something very taking about Mr. Palgrave’s manner, which put  Vargas completely at his ease. It was more than conciliatory, it was  almost friendly, almost sympathetic. It not so much expressed readiness  to admit to a confidential understanding, as gave the impression of  continuing a well-established natural attitude of entire trust and  complete comprehension. It had an unmistakable tinge, as unexpected as  gratifying, of level esteem and unspoken gratitude.    There was a rustic seat by the path and by a common impulse both moved  toward it. At the clubman’s courteous gesture, the cripple, with his  unavoidable wrenching jolt, lowered himself painfully to the level of  the bench. Mr. Palgrave seated himself beside him, crossed his knees  and half turned toward him. He rested his left elbow on the back of the  bench. His other hand held his cane, which he tapped against the side  of his foot. The waiting carriages, one behind the other, were under a  big elm some distance off; their drivers lay on the grass beside them.  No one else was in sight except where, rather farther off in another  direction, six laborers, their coats off, sat with a superintendent  near them, in the shade of a Norway maple, near the Llewellyn monument;  which dominated the neighborhood from its low, broad knoll.    The brief silence Mr. Palgrave broke.    “If you will pardon my saying it, you don’t look at all like my idea of  a clairvoyant.”    Vargas smiled a wan smile. The tone of the words was totally disarming.    “I don’t feel like my idea of a clairvoyant,” he said, “I am usually  clear-sighted in any matter I take up; usually so clear-sighted in  respect to any personality that my advice, as it often is, seems to  my clients a mere echo of their own thoughts, a mere confirmation of  their own judgments, a mere additional reason for what they would have  done anyhow. I am used to touching unerringly the strongest springs  of action. So far I have utterly failed to gain that clue to Mrs.  Llewellyn’s character necessary to make my advice acceptable.”    “In every other respect you seem to have been as clear-sighted as  possible,” Mr. Palgrave told him. “No advice could have been better nor  more judiciously urged, nor more entirely disinterested.”    “Rather utterly interested,” said Vargas.    “In an altogether different sense,” said the other. “She told me. Until  I saw you I was astonished that she had not resented it.”    “She did resent it, and of course,” said the cripple.    “Not as she would from any other man,” said Mr. Palgrave.    “There are some things--” Vargas began. His voice thinned out and he  broke off.    “Yes, I understand,” said her brother, “and I want to say that I feel  under much obligation to you for the way you behaved and for the  manliness and the straightforwardness of your whole attitude.”    “I am greatly complimented,” Vargas replied.    “You deserve complimenting,” said Mr. Palgrave. “You acted admirably.  Your consideration, I might say your gentleness shows that you really  have her best interests at heart.”    “I truly have,” said Vargas fervently, “and I am more disturbed in mind  than I can express.”    “That must be a great deal,” said the clubman, a momentary gleam of his  usual self, fading instantly from his eyes. “I certainly cannot express  how much I am upset. I hate worry or anxiety and always put such  troubles away and forget them. I can’t forget this. I have idolized my  sister since we were babies. I have hardly slept since she talked to  me. She won’t hear of a doctor. She don’t admit that there could be any  pretext for her consulting a doctor, and I can’t talk to any one about  her. I can talk to you. You seem a very sensible man. I should like to  hear your opinion of her condition. Do you think her mind is unsettled?”    “Not as bad as that,” Vargas told him.    “This grave-opening idea seems to me out and out lunacy,” said the  other.    “Not as bad as that,” Vargas repeated. “It shows a trend of thought  which may develop into something worse, but in itself it is only a  foolish whim. The worst of it is that it produces a situation of great  delicacy and high tension which may have almost any sort of bad result.”    “I can’t imagine,” said Palgrave, “any rational or half rational basis  for her whim. I can’t conceive what she thinks she will accomplish  by opening that coffin or why she wants it opened. I was at Marian’s  funeral and the two coffins made a precious lot of talk, I can tell  you. I assumed that Llewellyn had some wild, sentimental notion of the  second coffin waiting there for him. Constance declares it was not  empty, but she won’t say what she expects to find in it and I believe  she don’t say because she has no idea at all.”    “You are right,” said the clairvoyant, “she hasn’t.”    “Well,” said the other, “what do _you_ think she will find in it?”    “I have no opinions whatever,” said Vargas, “as to whether it is empty  or not or as to what may be in it. I have no basis of conjecture. But  whether empty or not or whatever may be in it, I dread the effect  on her. She is sure to be baffled in her hopes. Her present state  of mind is a sort of reawakening in a civilized, educated, cultured  woman of the primitive, childish, savage faith in sorcery, almost  in rudimentary fetishism. She would not acknowledge it, but her  attitude is very like that of a fetish-worshipper. Her mind does not  reason. She is possessed of a blind, vague feeling that her welfare  is implicated with whatever is in that coffin, and a compelling hope  in the efficiency of the mere act of opening it, as a sort of magic  rite. She is buoyed up with uncertainty. Whether she finds something  or nothing she will be brought face to face with final unmistakable  disappointment. I dread the moment of that realization.”    “I felt something like that,” said her brother. “Anyhow I brought a  doctor with me, but she must not suspect that as long as we don’t need  him.”    “That is why your carriage has the shades down,” Vargas hazarded.    “Is that the reason yours has its shades down?” the other inquired.    “That is it,” Vargas confessed. “I brought a doctor too.”    “Two doctors,” commented Palgrave. “Like a French duel. Hope it will  end as harmlessly as the average French duel.”    “That is almost too much to hope for,” said Vargas. “She may pass the  critical instant safely. But even if she does she will be thrown back  into brooding over her troubles.”    “Her troubles seem to me largely imaginary,” said the clubman.    “All the more danger in that,” said Vargas. “If merely subjective.”    “In this case they ought to evaporate,” said her brother, “if she  acted sensibly, and yet they are not wholly imaginary. I don’t wonder  that she is troubled. David Llewellyn is not himself at all. His  dead-and-alive demeanor is enough to prey on anybody’s mind. Moping  about here with him makes it worse. But going for a cruise might cure  both of them and would be likely to wake him up and certain to clear  her head. She ought to take your advice.”    “She will not,” said Vargas dejectedly, “and I scarcely wonder at  her determination. Her dreams were enough to affect anybody. And the  message on that slate was enough to influence anyone. Believing it  addressed directly to her she is irresistibly urged to act upon it.  I myself, merely a spectator, have been thrown by it into a terrible  confusion of my whole mentality. I have believed in no real mystery  in the universe. I am confronted by an unblinkable, an insoluble  puzzle. My reliance upon the laws of space and time, as we think we  know them, is, for the time being, wrenched from its foundations.  My faith in the indestructibility of matter, in the continuity of  force, in the fundamental laws of motion, is shaken and tottering. My  belief in the necessary sequence of cause and effect, in causation and  causality in general, is totally shattered. I could credit any marvel,  could accept any monstrous portent as altogether to be expected. The  universe no longer seems to me a scene, at least in front of the great,  blank curtain of the unknowable, filled by an orderly progress of  more or less cognizable and predictable occurrences, depending upon  interrelated causes; it seems the playground of the irresponsible,  prankish, malevolent somethings, productive of incalculabilities. I am  in a delirium of dread, in a daze of panic.”    “I hardly follow your meaning,” said the other, “but I feel we can do  nothing.”    “No,” said Vargas, “we can only hope for the best and fear the worst.”    “And what will be the worst?” her brother demanded.    “I conceive,” said Vargas, “that upon the opening of the coffin she  will suffer some sort of shock, whether it be from disappointment,  surprise, or whatever else. At the worst she might scream and drop dead  before our eyes or shriek and hopelessly lose her reason.”    “Yes,” said Mr. Palgrave, “that would be the worst, I suppose.”    “And yet,” said Vargas, “I cannot escape from the feeling that the  worst, in some incalculable, unpredictable, inconceivable way, will  be something a great deal worse than that; something unimaginably,  unutterably, ineffably worse than anything I can definitely put into  words or even vaguely think.”    “I cannot express myself as fluently as you can,” her brother  responded, “but I have had much the same sort of feeling. I have it  now. I feel as if I were not now in a cemetery for the purpose of being  present at the opening of a grave; but far away, or long ago, about to  participate in some uncanny occurrence fit to make Saul’s experience at  Endor or Macbeth’s with the witches seem humdrum and commonplace.”    “I feel all that,” said Vargas, “and more; as if we were not  ourselves at all, but the actors in some vast drama of wretchedness,  apocalyptically ignorant of an enormous shadow of unescapable doom  steadily darkening over our impotence. We cannot modify, we cannot  alter, we cannot change, we cannot ward off, we cannot even postpone  what is about to happen.”    “What is about to happen,” said his companion, “is going to happen now.  Here they come.”    The two men rose and watched the Llewellyn carriage draw up where  theirs had stopped. Its door opened and a large man stepped down.    Vargas had previously seen David Llewellyn only momentarily at a  distance, and now scrutinized him with much attention. He was a tall  man, taller than his brother-in-law and was solidly and very compactly  made. His manner, as he turned to the carriage, was solicitous, and  deferential as he helped his wife out. As they approached, walking side  by side, Vargas eyed the man. He was powerfully built and showed an  immense girth of chest. His close-cut beard did not disguise the type  of his countenance, the face belonged to an athletic college-bred man,  firm chin, set lips, straight nose and clear gray eyes. He was very  handsome and reminders of what had been downright beauty in his boyhood  were manifest not only in the face but in the general effect of his  presence.    Without any word, barely nodding to the two men, he halted some steps  away, leaving his wife to advance alone. She greeted Vargas and,  slipping her hand through the bend of her brother’s arm, passed on  along the path with him. Vargas remained where he was, waiting for  Mr. Llewellyn to go first. He seemed, by a subtle and intangible  something in his look and attitude, to signify that he disclaimed any  participation in what was to take place. By an almost imperceptible  nod of negation and a barely discernible gesture of affirmation he  indicated that the clairvoyant was to precede him. Vargas complied and  hobbled after the brother and sister. The superintendent came forward  to meet them, and walked beside Mrs. Llewellyn, listening to her  instructions, and then going toward his assistants.    The space around their monument which was occupied by the Llewellyn  graves was encircled by a low hedge, not more than knee-high. It had  an opening facing the monument and through this Mrs. Llewellyn and her  brother passed, Vargas some steps behind them. They stopped a pace or  two from the foot of the grave, and turned about. Vargas, keeping his  distance, stopped likewise and likewise turned. Mr. Llewellyn, treading  noiselessly, had stepped aside from the path and took his stand just  inside the hedge. The workmen straggled past him, the superintendent  convoying them. When they had begun to dig, Vargas, like the rest,  watched them. Presently he began to look about him and survey the  cemetery, of which the knoll afforded an extensive view. The weather  gave the prospect an unusual quality, the late spring or early summer  warmth was unrelieved by any positive breeze, the light air stirred  aimlessly, the cloudiness which completely overcast the sky was too  thin to cut off the heat of the sunrays, the foliage was dusty and the  landscape a sickly yellowish green in the weak tepid sunshine. This  eery quality of the scene Vargas felt rather than saw. While the time  taken up with digging postponed the all-important moment, his attention  was divided between the monument and Mr. Llewellyn. He stood with his  weight nearly all on one foot, leaning on the cane his left hand held,  the other gloved hand, holding his hat, hanging at his side. Gazing  straight in front of him toward the monument, rather than at it, there  was about him the look of something inanimate, of something made,  not grown, of an object immovably planted in carven, expressionless  impassivity. The monument, which Vargas saw for the first time, gave  from the perfectly coördinated harmonies of its architectural design,  its delicate reliefs, and its exquisite statuary, an impression of  individuality striking enough to any one at any time and all the more  now by contrast. Any one of its figures seemed instinct with more life  than the man facing it. That member of the little gathering who should  have been most moved, showed no emotion and Vargas himself felt much.  As the digging proceeded, he mostly gazed into the deepening pit, or  watched Mrs. Llewellyn’s back as she stood clinging to her brother’s  arm, leaning against him. When the workmen began to raise the coffin,  he found the emotions of his strained forebodings overmastering him.  His breath quickened and came hard, his heart thumped at his ribs,  his eyes were unexpectedly, inexplicably moist. Glancing back at the  immobile man behind him, through the iridescent film upon his lashes,  he saw but a blurred, vague shape. He strove to regain his composure,  conning the outline of his own barely discernible shadow.    The outer box containing the raised coffin was now supported upon two  pieces of wood thrust under it across the grave. The men unscrewed the  lid and laid it aside. The coffin was of ebony and as fresh as if just  made.    The men, at the superintendent’s bidding, shambled away round the  monument and through the opening in the hedge behind it to the tree  they had left.    The superintendent began to take out the silver screws which held down  the lid over the glass front of the coffin-head. As they were removed  one by one, Vargas again glanced behind him. He saw worse than ever.  The outline of the big figure was almost indefinite, its bulk almost  hazy.    As he turned his gaze again to the coffin his sight seemed to clear  entirely. He saw even the silver rims round the screw-holes and the  head of the last screw. As the superintendent lifted the lid, Mrs.  Llewellyn, now at the foot of the coffin, leaned forward, and her  brother and Vargas, now just behind her, leaned even more. Through the  glass they saw a face, David Llewellyn’s face. Mrs. Llewellyn screamed.  All three turned round. Save themselves and the superintendent and the  distant workmen there was no human shape in sight anywhere. The big,  solid presence had vanished.    Again screaming Mrs. Llewellyn threw herself on the coffin, the  two men, scarcely less frantic than she, close by her. Through the  glass they could see the face working, the eyelids fluttering. The  superintendent toiled furiously at the catches of the glass front.  When he lifted it away the eyes opened, gazing straight into Mrs.  Llewellyn’s. Almost at once they glazed, and a moment later the jaw  dropped.  