                                                        THE HOUSE OF THE NIGHTMARE      I FIRST caught sight of the house from the brow of the mountain as I  cleared the woods and looked across the broad valley several hundred  feet below me, to the low sun sinking toward the far blue hills. From  that momentary viewpoint I had an exaggerated sense of looking almost  vertically down. I seemed to be hanging over the checkerboard of roads  and fields, dotted with farm buildings, and felt the familiar deception  that I could almost throw a stone upon the house. I barely glimpsed its  slate roof.    What caught my eyes was the bit of road in front of it, between  the mass of dark-green shade trees about the house and the orchard  opposite. Perfectly straight it was, bordered by an even row of trees,  through which I made out a cinder side path and a low stone wall.    Conspicuous on the orchard side between two of the flanking trees was a  white object, which I took to be a tall stone, a vertical splinter of  one of the tilted lime-stone reefs with which the fields of the region  are scarred.    The road itself I saw plain as a box-wood ruler on a green baize table.  It gave me a pleasurable anticipation of a chance for a burst of speed.  I had been painfully traversing closely forested, semi-mountainous  hills. Not a farmhouse had I passed, only wretched cabins by the road,  more than twenty miles of which I had found very bad and hindering.  Now, when I was not many miles from my expected stopping-place, I  looked forward to better going, and to that straight, level bit in  particular.    As I sped cautiously down the sharp beginning of the long descent the  trees engulfed me again, and I lost sight of the valley. I dipped into  a hollow, rose on the crest of the next hill, and again saw the house,  nearer, and not so far below.    The tall stone caught my eye with a shock of surprise. Had I not  thought it was opposite the house next the orchard? Clearly it was on  the left-hand side of the road toward the house. My self-questioning  lasted only the moment as I passed the crest. Then the outlook was  cut off again; but I found myself gazing ahead, watching for the next  chance at the same view.    At the end of the second hill I only saw the bit of road obliquely and  could not be sure, but, as at first, the tall stone seemed on the right  of the road.    At the top of the third and last hill I looked down the stretch of road  under the overarching trees, almost as one would look through a tube.  There was a line of whiteness which I took for the tall stone. It was  on the right.    I dipped into the last hollow. As I mounted the farther slope I kept  my eyes on the top of the road ahead of me. When my line of sight  surmounted the rise I marked the tall stone on my right hand among the  serried maples. I leaned over, first on one side, then on the other, to  inspect my tires, then I threw the lever.    As I flew forward I looked ahead. There was the tall stone--on the  left of the road! I was really scared and almost dazed. I meant to  stop dead, take a good look at the stone, and make up my mind beyond  peradventure whether it was on the right or the left--if not, indeed,  in the middle of the road.    In my bewilderment I put on the highest speed. The machine leaped  forward; everything I touched went wrong; I steered wildly, slewed to  the left, and crashed into a big maple.    When I came to my senses I was flat on my back in the dry ditch.  The last rays of the sun sent shafts of golden green light through  the maple boughs overhead. My first thought was an odd mixture of  appreciation of the beauties of nature and disapproval of my own  conduct in touring without a companion--a fad I had regretted more than  once. Then my mind cleared and I sat up. I felt myself from the head  down. I was not bleeding; no bones were broken; and, while much shaken,  I had suffered no serious bruises.    Then I saw the boy. He was standing at the edge of the cinder-path,  near the ditch. He was stocky and solidly built; barefoot, with his  trousers rolled up to his knees; wore a sort of butternut shirt, open  at the throat; and was coatless and hatless. He was tow-headed, with a  shock of tousled hair; was much freckled, and had a hideous harelip. He  shifted from one foot to the other, twiddled his toes, and said nothing  whatever, though he stared at me intently.    I scrambled to my feet and proceeded to survey the wreck. It seemed  distressingly complete. It had not blown up, nor even caught fire; but  otherwise the ruin appeared hopelessly thorough. Everything I examined  seemed worse smashed than the rest. My two hampers alone, by one of  those cynical jokes of chance, had escaped--both had pitched clear of  the wreckage and were unhurt, not even a bottle broken.    During my investigations the boy’s faded eyes followed me continuously,  but he uttered no word. When I had convinced myself of my helplessness  I straightened up and addressed him:    “How far is it to a blacksmith shop?”    “Eight mile,” he answered. He had a distressing case of cleft palate  and was scarcely intelligible.    “Can you drive me there?” I inquired.    “Nary team on the place,” he replied; “nary horse, nary cow.”    “How far to the next house?” I continued.    “Six mile,” he responded.    I glanced at the sky. The sun had set already. I looked at my watch: it  was going--seven thirty-six.    “May I sleep in your house to-night?” I asked.    “You can come in if you want to,” he said, “and sleep if you can. House  all messy; ma’s been dead three year, and dad’s away. Nothin’ to eat  but buckwheat flour and rusty bacon.”    “I’ve plenty to eat,” I answered, picking up a hamper. “Just take that  hamper, will you?”    “You can come in if you’re a mind to,” he said, “but you got to carry  your own stuff.” He did not speak gruffly or rudely, but appeared  mildly stating an inoffensive fact.    “All right,” I said, picking up the other hamper; “lead the way.”    The yard in front of the house was dark under a dozen or more immense  ailanthus trees. Below them many smaller trees had grown up, and  beneath these a dank underwood of tall, rank suckers out of the deep,  shaggy, matted grass. What had once been, apparently, a carriage-drive  left a narrow, curved track, disused and grass-grown, leading to  the house. Even here were some shoots of the ailanthus, and the air  was unpleasant with the vile smell of the roots and suckers and the  insistent odor of their flowers.    The house was of gray stone, with green shutters faded almost as gray  as the stone. Along its front was a veranda, not much raised from the  ground, and with no balustrade or railing. On it were several hickory  splint rockers. There were eight shuttered windows toward the porch,  and midway of them a wide door, with small violet panes on either side  of it and a fanlight above.    “Open the door,” I said to the boy.    “Open it yourself,” he replied, not unpleasantly nor disagreeably, but  in such a tone that one could not but take the suggestion as a matter  of course.    I put down the two hampers and tried the door. It was latched, but not  locked, and opened with a rusty grind of its hinges, on which it sagged  crazily, scraping the floor as it turned. The passage smelt moldy and  damp. There were several doors on either side; the boy pointed to the  first on the right.    “You can have that room,” he said.    I opened the door. What with the dusk, the interlacing trees outside,  the piazza roof, and the closed shutters, I could make out little.    “Better get a lamp,” I said to the boy.    “Nary lamp,” he declared cheerfully. “Nary candle. Mostly I get abed  before dark.”    I returned to the remains of my conveyance. All four of my lamps were  merely scrap metal and splintered glass. My lantern was mashed flat. I  always, however, carried candles in my valise. This I found split and  crushed, but still holding together. I carried it to the porch, opened  it, and took out three candles.    Entering the room, where I found the boy standing just where I had left  him, I lit the candle. The walls were white-washed, the floor bare.  There was a mildewed, chilly smell, but the bed looked freshly made up  and clean, although it felt clammy.    With a few drops of its own grease I stuck the candle on the corner of  a mean, rickety little bureau. There was nothing else in the room save  two rush-bottomed chairs and a small table. I went out on the porch,  brought in my valise, and put it on the bed. I raised the sash of each  window and pushed open the shutters. Then I asked the boy, who had not  moved or spoken, to show me the way to the kitchen. He led me straight  through the hall to the back of the house. The kitchen was large, and  had no furniture save some pine chairs, a pine bench, and a pine table.    I stuck two candles on opposite corners of the table. There was no  stove or range in the kitchen, only a big hearth, the ashes in which  smelt and looked a month old. The wood in the wood-shed was dry enough,  but even it had a cellary, stale smell. The ax and hatchet were both  rusty and dull, but usable, and I quickly made a big fire. To my  amazement, for the mid-June evening was hot and still, the boy, a wry  smile on his ugly face, almost leaned over the flame, hands and arms  spread out, and fairly roasted himself.    “Are you cold?” I inquired.    “I’m allus cold,” he replied, hugging the fire closer than ever, till I  thought he must scorch.    I left him toasting himself while I went in search of water. I  discovered the pump, which was in working order and not dry on the  valves; but I had a furious struggle to fill the two leaky pails I had  found. When I had put water to boil I fetched my hampers from the porch.    I brushed the table and set out my meal--cold fowl, cold ham, white and  brown bread, olives, jam, and cake. When the can of soup was hot and  the coffee made I drew up two chairs to the table and invited the boy  to join me.    “I ain’t hungry,” he said; “I’ve had supper.”    He was a new sort of boy to me; all the boys I knew were hearty eaters  and always ready. I had felt hungry myself, but somehow when I came to  eat I had little appetite and hardly relished the food. I soon made an  end of my meal, covered the fire, blew out the candles, and returned to  the porch, where I dropped into one of the hickory rockers to smoke.  The boy followed me silently and seated himself on the porch floor,  leaning against a pillar, his feet on the grass outside.    “What do you do,” I asked, “when your father is away?”    “Just loaf ’round,” he said. “Just fool ’round.”    “How far off are your nearest neighbors?” I asked.    “Don’t no neighbors never come here,” he stated. “Say they’re afeared  of the ghosts.”    I was not at all startled; the place had all those aspects which lead  to a house being called haunted. I was struck by his odd matter-of-fact  way of speaking--it was as if he had said they were afraid of a cross  dog.    “Do you ever see any ghosts around here?” I continued.    “Never see ’em,” he answered, as if I had mentioned tramps or  partridges. “Never hear ’em. Sort o’ feel ’em ’round sometimes.”    “Are you afraid of them?” I asked.    “Nope,” he declared. “I ain’t skeered o’ ghosts; I’m skeered o’  nightmares. Ever have nightmares?”    “Very seldom,” I replied.    “I do,” he returned. “Allus have the same nightmare--big sow, big as a  steer, trying to eat me up. Wake up so skeered I could run to never.  Nowheres to run to. Go to sleep, and have it again. Wake up worse  skeered than ever. Dad says it’s buckwheat cakes in summer.”    “You must have teased a sow some time,” I said.    “Yep,” he answered. “Teased a big sow wunst, holding up one of her pigs  by the hind leg. Teased her too long. Fell in the pen and got bit up  some. Wisht I hadn’t ’a’ teased her. Have that nightmare three times a  week sometimes. Worse’n being burnt out. Worse’n ghosts. Say, I sorter  feel ghosts around now.”    He was not trying to frighten me. He was as simply stating an opinion  as if he had spoken of bats or mosquitoes. I made no reply, and found  myself listening involuntarily. My pipe went out. I did not really  want another, but felt disinclined for bed as yet, and was comfortable  where I was, while the smell of the ailanthus blossoms was very  disagreeable. I filled my pipe again, lit it, and then, as I puffed,  somehow dozed off for a moment.    I awoke with a sensation of some light fabric trailed across my face.  The boy’s position was unchanged.    “Did you do that?” I asked sharply.    “Ain’t done nary thing,” he rejoined. “What was it?”    “It was like a piece of mosquito-netting brushed over my face.”    “That ain’t netting,” he asserted; “that’s a veil. That’s one of the  ghosts. Some blow on you; some touch you with their long, cold fingers.  That one with the veil she drags acrosst your face--well, mostly I  think it’s ma.”    He spoke with the unassailable conviction of the child in “We Are  Seven.” I found no words to reply, and rose to go to bed.    “Good night,” I said.    “Good night,” he echoed. “I’ll set out here a spell yet.”    I lit a match, found the candle I had stuck on the corner of the shabby  little bureau, and undressed. The bed had a comfortable husk mattress,  and I was soon asleep.    I had the sensation of having slept some time when I had a  nightmare--the very nightmare the boy had described. A huge sow, big  as a dray horse, was reared up on her forelegs over the foot-board of  the bed, trying to scramble over to me. She grunted and puffed, and I  felt I was the food she craved. I knew in the dream that it was only a  dream, and strove to wake up.    Then the gigantic dream-beast floundered over the foot-board, fell  across my shins, and I awoke.    I was in darkness as absolute as if I were sealed in a jet vault, yet  the shudder of the nightmare instantly subsided, my nerves quieted;  I realized where I was, and felt not the least panic. I turned over  and was asleep again almost at once. Then I had a real nightmare, not  recognizable as a dream, but appallingly real--an unutterable agony of  reasonless horror.    There was a Thing in the room; not a sow, nor any other namable  creature, but a Thing. It was as big as an elephant, filled the room to  the ceiling, was shaped like a wild boar, seated on its haunches, with  its forelegs braced stiffly in front of it. It had a hot, slobbering,  red mouth, full of big tusks, and its jaws worked hungrily. It shuffled  and hunched itself forward, inch by inch, till its vast forelegs  straddled the bed.    The bed crushed up like wet blotting-paper, and I felt the weight of  the Thing on my feet, on my legs, on my body, on my chest. It was  hungry, and I was what it was hungry for, and it meant to begin on my  face. Its dripping mouth was nearer and nearer.    Then the dream-helplessness that made me unable to call or move  suddenly gave way, and I yelled and awoke. This time my terror was  positive and not to be shaken off.    It was near dawn: I could descry dimly the cracked, dirty window-panes.  I got up, lit the stump of my candle and two fresh ones, dressed  hastily, strapped my ruined valise, and put it on the porch against the  wall near the door. Then I called the boy. I realized quite suddenly  that I had not told him my name or asked his.    I shouted “Hello!” a few times, but won no answer. I had had enough of  that house. I was still permeated with the panic of the nightmare. I  desisted from shouting, made no search, but with two candles went out  to the kitchen. I took a swallow of cold coffee and munched a biscuit  as I hustled my belongings into my hampers. Then, leaving a silver  dollar on the table, I carried the hampers out on the porch and dumped  them by my valise.    It was now light enough to see to walk, and I went out to the road.  Already the night-dew had rusted much of the wreck, making it look more  hopeless than before. It was, however, entirely undisturbed. There was  not so much as a wheel-track or a hoof-print on the road. The tall,  white stone, uncertainty about which had caused my disaster, stood like  a sentinel opposite where I had upset.    I set out to find that blacksmith shop. Before I had gone far the sun  rose clear from the horizon, and almost at once scorching. As I footed  it along I grew very much heated, and it seemed more like ten miles  than six before I reached the first house. It was a new frame house,  neatly painted and close to the road, with a white-washed fence along  its garden front.    I was about to open the gate when a big black dog with a curly tail  bounded out of the bushes. He did not bark, but stood inside the gate  wagging his tail and regarding me with a friendly eye; yet I hesitated  with my hand on the latch, and considered. The dog might not be as  friendly as he looked, and the sight of him made me realize that  except for the boy I had seen no creature about the house where I had  spent the night; no dog or cat; not even a toad or bird. While I was  ruminating upon this a man came from behind the house.    “Will your dog bite?” I asked.    “Naw,” he answered; “he don’t bite. Come in.”    I told him I had had an accident to my automobile, and asked if he  could drive me to the blacksmith shop and back to my wreckage.    “Cert,” he said. “Happy to help you. I’ll hitch up foreshortly. Wher’d  you smash?”    “In front of the gray house about six miles back,” I answered.    “That big stone-built house?” he queried.    “The same,” I assented.    “Did you go a-past here?” he inquired astonished. “I didn’t hear ye.”    “No,” I said; “I came from the other direction.”    “Why,” he meditated, “you must ’a’ smashed ’bout sunup. Did you come  over them mountains in the dark?”    “No,” I replied; “I came over them yesterday evening. I smashed up  about sunset.”    “Sundown!” he exclaimed. “Where in thunder’ve ye been all night?”    “I slept in the house where I broke down.”    “In that there big stone-built house in the trees?” he demanded.    “Yes,” I agreed.    “Why,” he quavered excitedly, “that there house is haunted! They say if  you have to drive past it after dark, you can’t tell which side of the  road the big white stone is on.”    “I couldn’t tell even before sunset,” I said.    “There!” he exclaimed. “Look at that, now! And you slep’ in that house!  Did you sleep, honest?”    “I slept pretty well,” I said. “Except for a nightmare, I slept all  night.”    “Well,” he commented, “I wouldn’t go in that there house for a farm,  nor sleep in it for my salvation. And you slep’! How in thunder did you  get in?”    “The boy took me in,” I said.    “What sort of a boy?” he queried, his eyes fixed on me with a queer,  countrified look of absorbed interest.    “A thick-set, freckle-faced boy with a harelip,” I said.    “Talk like his mouth was full of mush?” he demanded.    “Yes,” I said; “bad case of cleft palate.”    “Well!” he exclaimed. “I never did believe in ghosts, and I never did  half believe that house was haunted, but I know it now. And you slep’!”    “I didn’t see any ghosts,” I retorted irritably.    “You seen a ghost for sure,” he rejoined solemnly. “That there harelip  boy’s been dead six months.”                                                                                                                                                   